---
title:  "GSOC-2023: Coding Week 12"
layout: post
---

I was able to successfully pass the GSOC midterm evaluation, and I would like to extend my gratitude to my mentors for their unwavering support and guidance. 
Let's dive into what I managed to accomplish this week,




Because I got busy with some assignments from the university, I wasn't able to fully commit my self to the project. I mainly work on these two tasks.

#### Alternative approach to deploying OpenMRS O3 using the build-distro plugin.

I delved into refining the deployment strategy for OpenMRS O3 using the build-distro plugin.
In light of our discussions, we decided to pivot away from the initial approach of cloning the distribution from GitHub.
Instead, we're exploring the possibility of deploying O3 using the build-distro plugin itself.
This transition involves understanding the intricacies of the build-distro plugin and identifying a seamless implementation process.

Throughout my exploration, I identified some key differences between the O2 and O3 distributions that need careful consideration:

* Distribution File Naming: In O2, the distribution file is named "openmrs-distro.properties," while in O3, it's labeled as "distro.properties."
* Artifact Types: While O3 distribution consists solely of "zip" artifacts, the OpenMRS SDK primarily supports downloading "jar" artifacts. To facilitate this, we need to extend support for "zip" artifacts.
* Specific Configurations: O3 requires specific configurations within the server folder. You can find these configurations [here](https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-distro-referenceapplication/tree/main/distro/configuration).
* Docker Configuration: Unlike O2, which generates Docker configuration files using a template within the SDK, O3 might necessitate creating separate docker files.
* Directory Structure: There are differences in the directory structure between O2 and O3 distributions, notably the O2 web folder and O3 distro folder discrepancies.


My aim is to find a straightforward solution that avoids unnecessary complexity within the codebase.
During my exploration, I stumbled upon intriguing questions, such as the differences in Docker files and docker-compose files between the openmrs-distro-referenceapplication GitHub repository and the OpenMRS distro reference Maven artifacts.


#### Easier configuration of csrfguard.properties

My mentors presented me with an exciting opportunity to take a detour from the SDK codebase and contribute to the OpenMRS Core.
The task was to enhance the configuration process for "csrfguard.properties" in OpenMRS Core Here is the ticket for this task: <https://issues.openmrs.org/browse/TRUNK-6185>
I crated a PR for this: <https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-core/pull/4369>. My aim is to address any feedback on this PR and get it merged within this week.


Thank you for reading! See you next week


