---
title:  "GSOC-2023: Coding Week 06"
layout: post
---

First of all, sorry for the delay. I got busy with some stuff. So let's jump into what I did this week.

* Removing memory related parameters from maven opts
* Updating the OpenMRS O3 documentation
* Addressing mentor feedbacks for pull requests.





## Removing memory related parameters from maven opts

Run plugin of the SDK contains a couple of memory-related [parameters](https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/blob/154ddbffdf97a72e09813c60ad73e2f08e5a55bd/maven-plugin/src/main/java/org/openmrs/maven/plugins/Run.java#L170-L171) that became irrelevant after migrating to Java 8.
These seem to be causing some errors. So we decide to remove the parameters. Here is the PR for it: <https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/pull/242>.


## Updating the OpenMRS O3 documentation

Last week I created a [PR](https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/pull/233) to allow the SDK to create docker configurations for O3 distributions. I updated the documentation to reflect these
suggested changes. You can find the documentation here: <https://wiki.openmrs.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=224527013#O3ImplementerDocumentation:SetUp,Configure&Deploy-CreatingDockerConfigurationforOpenMRS3DistributionUsingtheOpenMRSSDK>
Here is how you can create configuration for OpenMRS 3 Distribution Using the OpenMRS SDK.

1. Enter the following command in your terminal
````
$ mvn openmrs-sdk:build-distro
````
2. Enter the build directory when prompted.
3. Choose "03 Distribution" When you get prompted with the following option:
````
You can setup the following servers:
1) 2.x Distribution
2) O3 Distribution
````
4. Choose the desired version of O3 distribution.
5. After the build process is completed, run the following command in the directory you selected in step 2.
````
$ docker compose up
````

I encourage referring to the [official documentation] (https://wiki.openmrs.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=224527013) to ensure you have the most up-to-date and detailed instructions on setting up O3, 


## Addressing mentor feedbacks for pull requests.

As part of the development process, I addressed the feedback provided by my mentors for various pull requests.

Thank you for reading. See you next week



