---
title:  "GSOC-2023: Coding Week 05"
layout: post
---
In the fifth week of the Google Summer of Code (GSoC) coding period, I made significant progress on several fronts. Here is a detailed breakdown them:


## Addressing Mentor Feedback for PRs

#### Switching to the new Date and Time API

As part of this PR, tests were requested by my mentors to ensure the reliability and correctness of the code.

{% highlight java %}
    private boolean checkIfOneWeekFromLastReport(){
        LocalDate lastReport = getLastReported();
        LocalDate currentDate = LocalDate.now();
        if (lastReport != null) {
            return ChronoUnit.DAYS.between(lastReport, currentDate) > 7;
        } else {
            return true;
        }
    }
{% endhighlight %}

To address my mentors' request for tests, I initially examined the calling method, which was responsible for sending data to a Google form.
However, due to the specific nature of its functionality, I struggled to identify a suitable approach for writing tests.

To overcome the challenge, I resorted to an unconventional hack.
I extracted the relevant code block from checkIfOneWeekFromLastReport() and created a separate public method to encapsulate it. This extracted code block was as follows:

{% highlight java %}
if (lastReport != null) {
    return ChronoUnit.DAYS.between(lastReport, currentDate) > 7;
} else {
    return true;
}
{% endhighlight %}

My mentor advised me to not because making a method public only for the sake of tests is not good. So I decided to go back and write tests using Java reflections to access private members of the class.
After I added the tests this PR got merged: <https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/commit/c7db8a1fd5f9c48a65cce2348ff6383257dd29bb>

#### Using Java 8 Optional Class

Using Optional classes is something new for me. Initially, I perceived Optional as a replacement for if (val == null) statements with if (val.isPresent()). However, my mentor shared two invaluable articles that shed light on the true potential of Optional. These articles provided a comprehensive guide on best practices and effective use cases, enabling me to enhance my code accordingly

* [Java 8 Optional - Use Cases](http://dolszewski.com/java/java-8-optional-use-cases/)
* [12 Recipes for Using the Optional Class as It's Meant to Be Used](https://blogs.oracle.com/javamagazine/post/12-recipes-for-using-the-optional-class-as-its-meant-to-be-used)

Here is a summary of the key takeaways from those articles

* Never assign null to an optional variable. Instead of assigning null to an Optional variable, initialize it with an empty Optional using the Optional.empty() method.

* Don't call get() directly on an Optional. Always check for the presence of a value using the isPresent() method before calling get(). Alternatively, you can use the orElse() method to provide a default value.

* When using Optional, avoid using null directly. If you need a null reference, use the orElse(null) method instead.

* Avoid using isPresent() and get() pairs for setting and returning a value. Instead, use the orElse() method to provide a default value.

* Avoid using orElse() for returning a computed value. Instead, use orElseGet() with a Supplier to provide a computed value only when necessary.

* Throw an exception in the absence of a value. Use orElseThrow() to throw an exception if no value is present in the Optional.

* Throw explicit exceptions when no value is present. Use orElseThrow() with a custom exception supplier to throw a specific exception with relevant information.

* Use ifPresent() to perform an action only when a value is present in the Optional. Avoid using isPresent() and get() for this purpose.

* Use ifPresentOrElse() to execute an empty-based action if a value is not present in the Optional.

* Return another Optional when no value is present. Use the or() method to return a different Optional if no value is present in the current Optional.

After reading this article I made changes to the code accordingly.


## Updating the SDK to Java 11:

So our initial plan for this GSOC project was to update the SDK to use Java 8. After some considerations I decided that using Java 11 is going to be better than Java 8.
So with mentor's permissions I updated the SDK to use Java 11.

PR: <https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/pull/230>

## Updating Maven to the Latest Version:

Upgrading the SDK to the latest version of Maven is necessary to improve its reliability and performance. I updated all the maven plugins to latest version in this PR: <https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/pull/231/files>

## Enhancing the Documentation System:

The output from mvn openmrs-sdk:help is outdated. To make it up to date I had to

* Update the documentation with the current capabilities of plugins.
* Add documentation to the plugins that are currently not included in the documentation.

This was a meticulous and comprehensive task that involved reviewing each plugin's and parameter's functionality and updating the documentation accordingly.
Here is the PR for this: <https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/pull/232](https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/pull/232>

## Bumping the SDK Version to 5.0.0-SNAPSHOT:

As we were having both the master branch and the [4.0.X](https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/tree/4.0.x) branch producing the same version of the snapshot artifacts, we decided to bump the SDK version of the master branch to 5.0.0-SNAPSHOT.

PR: https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/pull/229

## Future


Because of some recent changes, we are having some trouble building the O3 front end. My main objective now is to find a way to mitigate these errors and add O3 support to the [build-distro](https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/blob/master/maven-plugin/src/main/java/org/openmrs/maven/plugins/BuildDistro.java) plugin. Thank you for reading,









