---
title:  "GSOC-2023: Coding Week 01"
layout: post
---
The first week of the coding period was hard but an exciting one. I was busy the whole week working on this [PR](https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-sdk/pull/220) to enable building O3 with the SDK.
So here is a description of things I did this week.


## Initial commit

So the first implementation I created used these steps to deploy the O3.

* I created an embed distro.properties file to deploy the frontend and backend modules.
* I was getting an error when I tried to deploy the initializer module with the distro.properties file.

````
Unable to find/resolve artifact. Failure to find org.openmrs.module:initializer-omod:jar:2.5.0 in https://mavenrepo.openmrs.org/public
````

So I added the latest version of the initializer module to the SDK resource folder and wrote a code to copy it to the server module folder.
* I got the configuration folder from [here](https://github.com/openmrs/openmrs-distro-referenceapplication/tree/main/distro/configuration). Then I added it to the SDK resource folder and added a code to copy it to the server folder.

After reviewing the PR mentors pointed to problems within this implementation.

* Metadata will change across versions and using an embed configuration is not sustainable.
* Copying an embed ````initializer.omod```` is problematic.

I was unsure of how to fix those problems. So I asked my mentors for guidance.

* Metadata for the O3 can be found in maven package ````org.openmrs.distro:referenceapplication-config````. We need to add a feature to SDK that translate a distro entry like ````config.referenceapplication-config=${version}````
  to ````org.openmrs.distro:referenceapplication-config:${version}````.

## Fixing problems

After playing around with the SDK code I figure out a way to fix these issues. The code I wrote does these steps

# Adding metadata to the server

* Translate the distro entry to the maven artifact format.
* Download the maven artifact ````org.openmrs.distro:referenceapplication-config:${version}````. It will download a file ````"referenceapplication-config.owa"````
* Extract content of referenceapplication-config.owa to the server configuration folder.

# Adding initializer module to the server

The initializer module is in the https://nexus.mekomsolutions.net/repository/maven-releases/ repository, and it is not included in OpenMRS SDK. So I added that repository to the SDK

## What's next?

So now users can deploy O3 if they have a suitable distro.properties file but there is a small problem. Only advanced users are comfortable creating a distro.properties file on their own.
Many times most users need to just have a local instance of what is at https://dev3.openmrs.org/. Now I am working on adding a feature to the SDK that will enable users to set up O3 and have it ready without having to supply a distro.properties file.
I think I'll be able to implement this within this week.

Thank you for reading, see you next week.






