---
title:  "GSOC-2023: Coding Week 10"
layout: post
---

This week I hit a milestone in my GSOC project. I have created pull requests for all the initial project objectives. So I had a discussion with my mentor about what my
next objective should be. He pointed me to a bug we have in the SDK.








Setting up O3 with the SDK is problematic when the file path contains spaces, triggering the following error: <https://pastebin.com/cRQHHmgU>.
This becomes problematic when usernames or server names involve spaces.
This error is caused by the following lines of codes that are used to build the front end.


{% highlight java %}
nodeHelper.runNpx(String.format("%s build --target %s --build-config %s", program, buildTargetDir, spaConfigFile), legacyPeerDeps);
{% endhighlight %}

So the first solution that came to my mind was to add the escape character '\' before the space. So I changed the code like this:


{% highlight java %}
nodeHelper.runNpx(String.format("%s build --target %s --build-config %s", program, buildTargetDir.getAbsolutePath().replace(" ", "\\ "), spaConfigFile.getAbsolutePath().replace(" ", "\\ ")), legacyPeerDeps);
{% endhighlight %}

This generates a command like the one below:

````
npm --cache=/tmp/openmrs-sdk-node12429853391947426928/npm-cache exec -- openmrs@next build --target /home/wikum/openmrs/server\ 20/frontend --build-config /home/wikum/openmrs/server\ 20/spa-build-config.json
````

Unfortunately, this didn't work as I expected. The '\' to escape spaces is not well-handled outside shell contexts. So I got the following error: <https://pastebin.com/t8d1KV04>

So I decided to wrap the paths with quotes. So I changed the code.

{% highlight java %}
nodeHelper.runNpx(String.format("%s build --target \"%s\" --build-config \"%s\"", program, buildTargetDir, spaConfigFile), legacyPeerDeps);
{% endhighlight %}

So this generates a command similar to this:

````
Running 'npm --cache=/tmp/openmrs-sdk-node5415753394153803303/npm-cache exec -- openmrs@next build --target "/home/wikum/openmrs/server 20/frontend" --build-config "/home/wikum/openmrs/server 20/spa-build-config.json"' in /home/wikum/Documents/GSOC/OpenMRS/GSOC-2023/openmrs-sdk
````
This method also didn't work as expected. This gave the following error:

````
[INFO] [openmrs] ENOENT: no such file or directory, open '/home/wikum/Documents/GSOC/OpenMRS/GSOC-2023/openmrs-sdk/"/home/wikum/openmrs/server 20/spa-build-config.json"'
````

My mentor suggested I update the version of frontend-maven-plugin. So I updated it to the latest versions: <https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.github.eirslett/frontend-maven-plugin>
This didn't fix the error either.

I am hoping to discuss this further with my mentors and solve this within the next week. I am also having the midterm evaluation next week.
So I plan to first create a short demo video showcasing the work I have done so far and share it with the OpenMRS community.

Thank you for reading. See you next week!!



